---
layout: post
title:  "Building a Record Store Day Database"
date:   2013-09-28 09:00:00
categories: pitchfork record-store-day
---

Music Hack Day blew through Chicago recently,
and it offered me a chance to hack on something
that I've wanted to do for a few years (which is a scary thought):
bring near-by record store listings to Pitchfork's
album reviews. Presently, we have links for Amazon,
eMusic, and InSound, so why not something closer to home?
That's where I buy my records.

The idea came from brainstorming something special
we could do for Record Store Day, but time was short
and nothing came together in time. It's an idea that's
come and gone a few times, always something interesting,
but the timing ultimately wasn't right. MHD offered a
great chance to hunker down, and so I took advantage of it.

### Gathering record stores

Building a list of stores from the Record Store Day website
is not a particularly arduous task. It goes a little like this:

1. Build a list of record stores for each region
   known by Record Store Day. RSD carries venue information for
   individual US states and entire foreign countries.
2. *Politely* scrape what details RSD has for each venue.

To do so, I built a simple two-phase scraper,
which is available [here](https://github.com/mattdennewitz/rsd/).
Instructions for running can be found on GitHub.
The scraper will yield CSV data in each step. Your final
list of stores will contain these fields:

- Name
- Address
- URL
- Latitude
- Longitude

Note that the name and address are not consistently
formatted, and will require some normalization
before you go live.

From here, you'll want to step through stores to validate
URLs and that each store is still active. While demoing
Pitchfork integration, someone in the audience noted
that the first result had recently closed.

### 